Now, the part that's really incredible
is this. This is the first AI
supercomputer we made. This is in 2016
when I delivered it to a startup in San
Francisco, which turned out to have been
OpenAI. This was the computer. And in
order to do that create that computer,
we designed one chip.
We designed one new chip. In order for
us to do co-design now,
look at all of the chips we have to do.
This is what it takes. You're not going
to take one chip and make a computer 10
times faster. That's not going to
happen.
The way to make computers 10 times
faster that we can keep increasing the
performance exponentially, we can keep
driving cost down exponentially, is
extreme co-design and working on all
these different chips at the same time.
We now have Reuben back home.
This is Reuben.
This is the Vera Reuben.
And and uh Reuben.
Ladies and gentlemen, Reuben.
>> [applause]
>> This is This is our third generation
NVLink 72 rack-scale computer. Third
generation. GB200 was the first one. All
of our partners around the world, I know
how hard you guys worked. It was
insanely hard. It was insanely hard to
do. Second generation, so much smoother.
And this generation, look at this.
Completely cableless.
Completely cableless. And this is This
is all back in the lab now. This is the
next generation Reuben. While we're
shipping GB300s,
uh we're preparing Reuben to be in
production, you know, this time next
year, maybe slightly earlier. And so,
every single year we are going to come
up with the most extreme co-design
system so that we can keep driving up
performance and keep driving down the
token generation cost. Look at this.
This is just an incredibly beautiful
computer.
Now, the
>> [applause]
>> So, this is amazing. This is 100
petaflops. I know it doesn't mean
anything. 100 petaflops. But,
compared to the DGX-1 I delivered to
OpenAI 10 years ago, 9 years ago,
it's 100 times the performance.
Right here versus 100 times of that
supercomputer. 100 times 100 of those,
let's see, 100 of those would be like 25
of these racks. All replaced by this one
thing.
>> [applause]
>> One
Vera Reuben.
Okay, so this is This is the compute
tray.
And this is
So, Vera Reuben superchip.
Okay? And this is the compute tray.
This up right here.
It's incredibly easy to install. Just
flip these things open, shove it in.
Even I could do it.
Okay? And this is the Vera Vera Reuben
compute tray. If you decide you wanted
to add a special processor, we've added
another processor. It's called a context
processor because the amount of context
that we give AIs are larger and larger.
We want it to read a whole bunch of PDFs
before it answer a question. Want it to
read a whole bunch of archive papers,
watch a whole bunch of videos, go learn
all this before you answer a question
for me.
All of that context processing could be
added. And so, you see on the bottom,
eight ConnectX 9, new SuperNICs.
You have CX
You have uh CPXs. Eight of them.
You have uh BlueField 4, this new data
processor.
Two Vera CPUs and four Reuben packages
or eight Reuben GPUs.
All of that in this one node. Completely
cableless. 100% liquid cooled.
And then,
this new processor, I won't talk too
much about it today. I don't have enough
time, but this is completely
revolutionary. And the reason for that
is because your AIs need to have more
and more memory.
You're interacting with it more. You
want it to remember our last
conversation, everything that you've
learned on my behalf. Please don't
forget it when I come back next time.
And so, all of that memory is going to
create this thing called KB caching. And
that KB caching, retrieving it, you
might have noticed every time you go
into your your your AIs these days, it
takes longer and longer to refresh and
retrieve all of the previous
conversations. And and the reason for
that is we need a revolutionary new
processor, and that's called BlueField
4.
Next is this the ConnectX switch. Uh
excuse me, the NVLink switch, which is
right here.
Okay? This is the NVLink switch. This is
what makes it possible for us to connect
all of the computers together. And this
switch is now several times
the bandwidth of the entire world's
peak internet traffic.
And so, that spine is going to
communicate and carry all of that data
simultaneously to all of the GPUs. On
top of that,
on top of that, this is the This is the
Spectrum-X
switch. And this Ethernet switch was
designed so that all of the processors
could talk to each other at the same
time and not gum up the network. Gum up
the network. That's very technical.
Okay? So, um so these are the These
three combined and then this is the
Quantum switch.
This is for InfiniBand. This is
Ethernet.
We don't care what language you would
like to use, whatever standard you like
to use, we have great scale-out fabrics
for you.
I have a second announcement.
This is the single fastest enterprise
enterprise company in the world.
Probably the single most important
enterprise stack in the world today.
Palantir Ontology.
Anybody from Palantir here? I
was just talking to Alex earlier.
>> [clears throat]
>> This is Palantir Ontology.
They take information,
they take data,
they take human judgment, and they turn
it into business insight. We work with
Palantir to accelerate everything
Palantir does so that we could do data
processing data processing at a much,
much larger scale and more speed.
Whether it's structured data
of the past,
and of course, we'll have structured
data human-recorded data, unstructured
data,
and process that data for our
government, for national security, and
for enterprises around the world,
process that data at speed of light and
to find insight from it. This is what
it's going to look like in the future.
Palantir is going to integrate NVIDIA so
that we could process at the speed of
light and at extraordinary scale.
Okay? NVIDIA and Palantir. NVIDIA
invented a new computing model
for the first time in 60 years because
we wanted to solve problems that
general-purpose computers, normal
computers could not.
We also observed that someday
transistors will continue the number of
transistors will grow, but the
performance and the power of transistors
will slow down.
That Moore's Law will not continue
beyond limited by the laws of physics.
And that moment has now arrived. Dennard
scaling has stopped. It's called Dennard
scaling. Dennard scaling has stopped
nearly a decade ago. And in fact, the
transistor performance and its power
associated has slowed tremendously. And
yet, the number of transistor continued.
We made this observation a long time
ago, and for 30 years we've been
advancing this form of computing we call
accelerated computing. We invented the
GPU.
We invented the the programming model
called CUDA. And we observed
that if we could add a processor that
takes advantage of more and more and
more transistors, apply parallel
computing, add that to a sequential
processing CPU,
that we could extend the capabilities of
computing well beyond well beyond. And
that moment has really come.
Telecommunications
is the
backbone, the lifeblood of our economy,
our industries, our national security.
And yet, ever since the beginning of
wireless,
where we
defined the technology, we defined the
global standards, we exported American
technology all around the world so that
the world can build
on top of American technology and
standards.
It has been a long time since that's
happened.
Wireless technology around the world,
largely today, deployed
on foreign technologies.
Our fundamental communication fabric
built on foreign technologies.
That has to stop. So, today we're
announcing
that NVIDIA has a new product line.
It's called the NVIDIA Arc.
The aerial radio network computer.
Aerial RAN computer, Arc.
Arc is built from three fundamental new
technologies.
The Grace CPU,
the Blackwell GPU, and our ConnectX
Mellanox ConnectX networking designed
for this application. We're going to
create for the first time
a software-defined
programmable computer that's able to
communicate wirelessly
and do AI processing at the same time.
So, what that means is we're going to
take this new technology and we'll be
able to upgrade millions of base
stations around the world with 6G and
AI.
Now, 6G and AI is really quite
fundamental in the sense that for the
first time, we'll be able to use AI
technology to make radio communications
more spectral efficient.
Doing using artificial intelligence,
reinforcement learning, adjusting the
beamforming in real time in context
depending on the surroundings and the
traffic and the mobility, the weather,
all of that could be taken into account
so that we could improve spectral
efficiency. Spectral efficiency consumes
about 1 and 1/2 to 2% of the world's
power.
So, improving spectral efficiency not
only improves the amount of data we can
put through wireless networks without
increasing the amount of energy
necessary.
The other thing that we could do,
remember,
the internet enabled communications.
But, amazingly smart companies, AWS,
built a cloud computing system on top of
the internet.
We are now going to do the same thing on
top of the wireless telecommunications
network.
This new cloud
will be an edge industrial robotics
cloud. Cloud computing will be able to
go right out to the edge where data
centers are not are not because we have
base stations all over the world. Let's
talk about quantum computing.
1981,
particle physicist, quantum physicist
Richard Feynman
imagined a new type of computer that can
simulate nature directly. To simulate
nature directly
because nature is quantum. He called it
a quantum computer.
40 years later,
the industry has made a fundamental
breakthrough. It is now possible to make
one
logical qubit.
One logical qubit. One logical qubit
that's coherent, stable,
and error corrected.
We now realize that it's essential for
us to connect the quantum computer
directly to a GPU supercomputer so that
we could do the error correction, so
that we could do the artificial
intelligence calibration and control of
the quantum computer, and so that we
could do simulations
collectively.
Working together, the right algorithms
running on
the GPUs, the right algorithms running
on the QPUs, and the two processors, the
two computers working side by side. This
is the future of quantum computing. So,
today, we're announcing the NV NVQ Link,
NVQ Link. And it's made possible by two
things. Of course, this interconnect
that does
quantum computer control and
calibration,
quantum error correction,
as well as connects two computers, the
QPU and our GPU supercomputers to do
hybrid simulations.
It is also completely scalable.
It doesn't just do the error correction
for today's number of few qubits. It
does error correction for tomorrow where
we're going to essentially scale up
these quantum computers from the
hundreds of qubits we have today to tens
of thousands of qubits, hundreds of
thousands of qubits in the future. So,
we now have an architecture that can do
control,
co-simulation, quantum error correction,
and scale into that future.
We are announcing today 17 different
quantum computer industry companies
supporting the NVQ Link.
Just about every single DOE lab has
engaged us working with our ecosystem of
quantum computer companies and these
quantum controllers so that we could
integrate quantum computing into the
future of science. Let's talk about AI.
What is AI? Most people would say that
AI is a chatbot, and it it's rightfully
so. There's no question
that ChatGPT is at the forefront of what
people would consider AI. And this is a
a profound understanding, a profound
observation of artificial intelligence.
That the software industry of the past
was about creating tools.
Excel is a tool.
Word is a tool. A web browser is a tool.
The reason why I know these are tools is
because you use them.
The tools industry, just as screwdrivers
and hammers,
the tools industry is only so large.
In the case of IT tools,
they could be database tools. These IT
tools, it's about a trillion dollars or
so.
But, AI is not a tool.
AI is work.
That is the profound difference.
AI is in fact workers that can actually
use tools and help us be more
productive.
The list of opportunities go on and on,
which is the reason why
AI addresses
the segment of the economy that IT has
never addressed.
Which then
brings me to this one. I just saw this
literally yesterday. This is
uh the CSP CapEx.
People are asking me about CapEx these
days. And um this is a good way to look
at it. In fact, the CapEx of the top six
CSPs, and this one this one is uh
Amazon, CoreWeave, Google, Meta,
Microsoft, and Oracle. Okay, these CSPs
together
are going to invest this much in CapEx,
and I would I would tell you the timing
couldn't be better. But, what's
happening under underneath is this.
There're two platform shifts happening
at the same time.
One platform shift is going from
general-purpose computing to accelerated
computing.
Remember, accelerated computing, as I
mentioned to you before, it does data
processing, it does image processing,
computer graphics, it does com-
computation of all kinds. And so, even
without AI,
the world's CSPs are going to invest
into acceleration. Nvidia's GPU is the
only GPU that can do all of that plus
AI.
An ASIC might be able to do AI, but it
can't do any of the others.
Nvidia could do all of that.
This is
what's going on in our company's
business. We're seeing extraordinary
growth for Grace Blackwell for all the
reasons that I just mentioned. It's
driven by two exponentials. We now have
visibility.
I think we're probably the first
technology company in history to have
visibility into half a trillion dollars
of cumulative Blackwell and early ramps
of Rubin
through 2026.
And as you know, 2025 is not over yet,
and 2026 hasn't started. This is how
much business is on the books.
Half a trillion dollars worth so far.
Now, this is
out of that, we've already shipped 6
million of the Blackwells
in the first several quarters. I guess
the first four quarters of production,
three and a half quarters of production.
We still have one more quarter to go for
2025, and then we have four quarters.
So, the next five quarters, there's 500
million 500 billion dollars, half a
trillion dollars. That's five times the
growth rate of Hopper.
Let's talk about models.
Open-source models particularly.
In the last couple years, several things
have happened.
One, open-source models have become
quite capable because of reasoning
capabilities. It has become quite
capable because they're multimodality,
and they're incredibly efficient because
of distillation.
So, all these different capabilities
have become
uh has made open-source models for the
very first time incredibly useful for
developers.
They are now the lifeblood of startups.
Lifeblood of startups in different
industries because obviously, as I
mentioned before, each one of the
industries have its own use case, its
own use cases, its own data, its own use
data, its own flywheels. All of that
capability, that domain expertise, needs
to have the ability to embed into a
model. Open source makes that possible.
Researchers need open source. Developers
need open source. Companies around the
world, we need open source. Open-source
models is really, really important.
The United States has to lead in open
source as well. We have amazing
proprietary models. We have amazing
proprietary models. We need also amazing
open-source models. Our country depends
on it. Our startups depend on it. And
so, Nvidia is dedicating ourselves to go
do that. We are now the largest the
largest, we lead in open source
contribution. We have 23 models in
leaderboards. We have all these
different domains from language models
to physical AI models I'm going to talk
about, robotics models to biological
biology models. Each one of these models
has enormous teams, and that's one of
the reasons why we built supercomputers
for ourselves to enable all these models
to be created. We have number one speech
model, number one reasoning model,
number one physical AI model. The number
of downloads is really, really terrific.
We are dedicated to this, and the reason
for that is because science needs it,
researchers need it, startups need it,
and companies need it.
Let's talk about physical AI. Physical
AI requires three computers.
Just as it takes
two computers to train a language model,
one that's to train it, evaluate it, and
then inference it. okay? So, that's the
large GB200 that you see. In order to do
it for physical AI, you need three
computers.
You need the computer to train it. This
is GB, the Grace Black NVLink 72. We
need a computer that does all of the
simulations that I showed you earlier
with Omniverse DSX. It basically is a
digital twin for the robot to learn how
to be a good robot and for the factory
to essentially be a digital twin. That
computer is the second computer, the
Omniverse computer. This computer has to
be incredibly good at generative AI and
it has to be good at computer graphics,
sensor simulation, ray tracing, signal
processing. This computer is called the
Omniverse computer. And once we
train the model,
simulate that AI inside a digital twin,
and that digital twin could be a digital
twin of a factory as long as well as a
whole bunch of digital twins of robots,
then you need to operate that robot. And
this is the robotic computer. This is
This one goes into a self-driving car.
Half of it could go into a robot, okay?
Or you could actually have, you know,
robots that are quite agile and quite
quite fast in operations and it might
take two of these computers. And so,
this is the Thor Jetson Thor robotics
computer. These three computers all run
CUDA
and it makes it possible for us to
advance physical AI. The factory is
essentially a robot
that's orchestrating robots
to build things that are robotic.
You know, this is the amount of software
necessary to do this is so intense that
unless you could do it inside a digital
twin to dis- to plan it, to design it,
to operate it inside a digital twin, the
hopes of getting this to work is nearly
impossible. Um these factories will have
future robotic systems. And one of the
most advanced is Figure. Brett Adcock is
here today. He's just He founded a
company 3 and 1/2 years ago. They're
worth almost $40 billion today. We're
working together in training the the AI
training the robot, simulating the
robot, and of course, the robotic
computer that goes into Figure. Really
amazing. Uh I had the benefit of seeing
it. Uh it's really quite quite
extraordinary. It is very likely that
humanoid robots and and uh my friend
Elon is also working on this, that this
is likely going to be one of the largest
consumer new consumer electronics
markets and surely one of the largest
industrial equipment market.
And of course,
the cutest robot ever,
the cutest robot ever, the Disney robot.
And this is this is um
uh something really close to our heart.
We're working with Disney research on an
entirely new
framework and simu- simulation platform
uh based on revolutionary technology
called Newton. And that Newton uh
simulator makes it possible for the the
robot to learn how to be a good robot
inside a physically aware, physically
based environment. So, these digital
twins of factories, digital twins of
warehouses, digital twins of surgical
rooms, digital twins where Blue could
learn how to manipulate and navigate
and, you know, interact with the world,
all completely done in real time. This
is going to be the largest consumer
electronics product line in the world.
Some of them are just really working
incredibly well now. This is the future
of humanoid robotics and of course,
Blue.
Okay?
>> [applause]
>> Now, humanoid robotics is still in
development, but meanwhile,
there's one robot that is clearly at an
inflection point and it is basically
here. And that is a robot on wheels.
This is a robo-taxi. A robo-taxi is
essentially an AI chauffeur.
Now, one of the things that we're doing
today, we're announcing the NVIDIA Drive
Hyperion. This is a big deal.
>> [snorts]
>> We created this architecture so that
every car company in the world could
create cars, vehicles could be
commercial, could be passenger, could be
dedicated to robo-taxi, create vehicles
that are robo-taxi ready.
The sensor suite
with surround cameras and radars and
lidar
make it possible for us to achieve the
highest level of surround cocoon sensor
perception and redundancy necessary for
the highest level of safety.
Hyperion Drive, Drive Hyperion is now
designed into Lucid, Mercedes-Benz, my
friend, um the folks at Stellantis and
there are many other cars coming. And
once you have a basic standard platform,
then developers of AV systems, and
there's so many talented ones, Wave,
Waymo, Aurora, Momenta, Neuro, there's
so many of them. WeRide, there's so many
of them that can then take their AV
system and run it on the standard
chassis.
Basically, the standard chassis has now
become a computing platform on wheels.
And because it's standard and the sensor
suite is comprehensive, all of them
could deploy their AI to it. And in the
future,
a trillion miles a year that are driven,
100 million cars made each year,
there's some 50 million taxis around the
world. It's going to be augmented by a
whole bunch of robo-taxis. So, it's
going to be a very large market. To
connect it and deploy it around the
world, today we're announcing a
partnership with Uber.
Uber, Dara Dara K, Dara is going to
We're working together to connect these
NVIDIA Drive Hyperion cars into a global
network. And now in the future, you'll,
you know, be able to hail up one of
these cars and the ecosystem is going to
be incredibly rich and we'll have
Hyperion or robo-taxi cars all over the
world. This is going to be a new
computing platform for us and I'm
expecting it to be quite successful.
Okay.
>> [applause]
>> So, this is what we talked about today.
We talked about a large large number of
things. We spoke about Remember, at the
core of this is two are two platform
transitions from general-purpose
computing to accelerated computing.
NVIDIA CUDA and those suite of libraries
called CUDA X has enabled us to address
practically every industry and we're at
the inflection point.
It is now growing
as a virtual cycle would suggest. The
second inflection point is now upon us.
The second platform transition, AI from
classical handwritten software to
artificial intelligence. Two platform
transitioning happening at the same
time, which is the reason why we're
feeling such incredible growth.
Quanta quantum computing we spoke about.
Open models we spoke about. We spoke
about enterprise with CrowdStrike and uh
Palantir accelerating their platforms.
Uh we spoke about robotics, a new large
potentially one of the largest consumer
electronics and industrial manufacturing
sectors. And of course, we spoke about
6G. NVIDIA has new platforms for 6G. We
call it Arc. We have a new platform for
robotics cars. We call that Hyperion.
Thank Thank you for for allowing us to
bring GTC to Washington, D.C. We're
going to do it hopefully every year. And
thank you all for your service in making
America great again. Thank you.